---
layout: post
title: Spork
date: 2013-06-03 03:07:27
categories: programming
---
**Problem** It takes a bit of time for my Rails tests to start, both RSpec and
Cucumber.

**Why** This is because it has to load Rails before it can start running the
test.

**Consequences**  This dramatically slows down my TDD because I have to wait a
few seconds after modifying my code.  These seconds add up and it slows down my
flow.

**Solution**  There is a gem called Spork.  It runs as a DRb server where it
keeps the Rails environment between tests so you don't have the startup cost.
Both RSpec and Cucumber has command line options for the DRb.

**Installation**

Put into your `Gemfile`.

{% highlight ruby %}
gem 'spork'
{% endhighlight %}

Then type this in your shell:

{% highlight bash %}
$ bundle install
$ spork cucumber --bootstrap
$ spork rspec --bootstrap
{% endhighlight %}

This will modify `features/support/env.rb` for Cucumber and
`spec/spec_helper.rb` for RSpec.  You just have to follow the instructions
written in those files.  Basically put all the original code that was there
into the `Spork.prefork` block.  This way it only gets executed once.  If
things break (in my case, nothing broke), you may need to put some statements
into the other block, `Spork.each_run`.

Run spork.  You may want to run them in separate shells.

{% highlight bash %}
$ spork rspec
$ spork cucumber
{% endhighlight %}

`spork rspec` will run on port 8989 and `spork cucumber` will run on port 8990.
You need to modify the config files for RSpec and Cucumber so they are aware of
the spork server.

For Cucumber add `--drb --port=8990` to your `config/cucumber.yml` file.  For
example, I put the arguments in the variable `std_opts`:

{% highlight ruby %}
<%
rerun = File.file?('rerun.txt') ? IO.read('rerun.txt') : ""
rerun_opts = rerun.to_s.strip.empty? ? "--format #{ENV['CUCUMBER_FORMAT'] || 'progress'} features" : "--format #{ENV['CUCUMBER_FORMAT'] || 'pretty'} #{rerun}"
std_opts = "--format #{ENV['CUCUMBER_FORMAT'] || 'pretty'} --drb --port=8990 --strict --tags ~@wip"
%>
default: <%= std_opts %> features
wip: --tags @wip:3 --wip features
rerun: <%= rerun_opts %> --format rerun --out rerun.txt --strict --tags ~@wip
{% endhighlight %}

For RSpec a line `--drb` to you `.rspec` file.

When you run `rspec`, it will automatically connect to the spork server and it
should be a little faster.  It should work the same way with `cucumber`, but
for some reason it is throwing an exception on `SystemExit`.  Other than that,
it works fine.

You'll probably notice a big difference now if you use automated testing.
Using `guard` or `autotest`, you should see a significant difference in speed
in your TDD.
